# Prospect: The Importance of Connection
In the 2018 science fiction film, Prospect, a father and daughter travel to a remote forest moon in search of the precious resource, orelac. Like their 19th century Californian counterparts, the work for these prospectors is dangerous and unregulated, no place for a child. But nevertheless, the father, Damon, brings everything he has to the job site, including his daughter, Cee. Damon's ambition is boundless, and he will sacrifice their safety to make his way up in the world.
*Clip of the landing failing*
*Clip of Cee begging him to go back to the ship*
Cee and Damon have suffered a vital loss to their family structure, the death of the mother, who remains unnamed. Damon is obviously unprepared for the parental burden, abusing downers and uppers to cope with life. Cee, on the other hand, has bent her will towards recreating a favorite lost book from memory, and is engrossed in the adventures of it's characters. Thusly prepared, these two explorers arrive to an environment in which the slightest mishap can bring death or dismemberment.

# Orelac
*Last prospectors missed something*
The gem, orelac, which our crew is after, suffers from a case of split personality. One would be forgiven if, up until the point of first contact, you thought it was an inorganic substance, a gem to be mined. But once the extraction begins, the viewer can immediately see that there is something very organic, very living about the shell of the orelac. It's shape, the sounds it makes, it is very similar to a pupa of some sort. Throughout the extraction process, however, we can see the prospector's break from reality, as Damon continues to refer to it in the inorganic fashion. It is only when Damon refers to the legendary "Queen's lair" that we see the first acknowledgement of an organic nature to the gem. Damon's area of expertise is in the extraction of value from this defenseless organism, a skill he puts to use on his own daughter as well.
*Audio: I could hold you in the palm of my hand, red and furious*
*Video: Him holding the pupa*

# Umbilical Cords
*Do you want to cut it?*
Through all manner of cords, hoses, and tubes, life is sustained, or ended, on this forest moon. In order to extract the orelac, the prospector must sever it's connection to the ground. With a shortage of filters, prospectors can only live by using a series of interconnected air hoses. Not even the act of eating through a food tube can be undertaken alone, with the construct of the suit making it impossible to hook up your food bag without a partner. But within these symbols of connection, we find the prospectors, which are ultimately islands to themselves, even though they may share superficial connections to each other. In the firefight that kills Damon, Ezra pays no mind to his slain comrade. Their relationship is revealed as less than co-workers, less than the two surviving members of a doomed prospecting run, but as barely more than acquaintences.

# Dust
*Some clip about dust*
The prospectors' break with reality extends to the very atmosphere, to the substance the prospectors call "Dust".
*Clip where they find the green body*
What is described as dust, turns out to be some type of spore, which infects and overtakes human life it comes into contact with. A prospector lives and dies by the filter they carry, and those are in such short supply that multiple people are often shown hooked up to a single filter.
*Ezra seals the hole in his suit*
When Cee attacks Ezra in her ship, the thing Ezra is worried about is sealing up his suit. Clearly, being shot in much less of a concern than the Dust getting inside.
*The religious people*
There is a group of people who have made a life on this moon, religious pioneers. Their suits bear a remarkable resemblance to the suits of the people of the forest in Nausicaa.
*Crosscut to Nausicaa*
It is through contrasting these two peoples, who have both made their lives in inhospitable environments, that we are able to see the true sickness of the group in Prospect. The people of the forest in Nausicaa receive their supplies as gifts from the insects, their survival dependent on how the insects regard them. The group in Prospect, however, is completely separated from nature. They have developed a juice, which cleanses dust from the body, they don't bury their dead outside, and they take part in the extraction of orelac as well. The depth of their dysfunction is illustrated when they offer Ezra a case of orelac in exchange for selling Cee to the patriarch as his new wife. We can clearly see a boy the same age as Cee in the tent, the obvious choice for continuing on the people. But this patriarch is more interested in his own immortality than in the survival of the group, more interested in not dying, than in living.
*He didn't tell you anything?*
After Cee's escape from the tent, she finds Ezra again, but at this point his injured arm is severely infected, and needs to be amputated. The story Cee tells Ezra while she is operating shows a stark contrast between her relationship with Ezra and that of her father.
*Clip of story*
While the stories have a superficial similarity, a deeper look will show that her childhood story is one of exploitation, while the current events are underscored with connection and compassion. At this moment, they both open up emotionally, Ezra over the loss of his arm, and Cee in her relation of a traumatic childhood event. By "disarming" Ezra, the relationship dynamic has shifted, and far from being one of exploitation, now they must work together to get off the moon at all.
*My name is Cee*

# The Prisoner
When the duo reach the mercenary job site, they discover a shirtless, purple man in a glass container.
*Strange method for an execution. What did this fellow do to land him in the box?*
Ezra, and the mercenaries, believe that this man is a prisoner of some sort, sent to die on the moon. But look closer. This man is passively sitting in the box, in fact he has been doing so ever since the mercenaries landed. He is adorned with several golden human jawbones. This man is no prisoner, his box isn't even fit to contain a normal person, much less someone of his size. His purpose will be later revealed.
Finally at the dig site, Ezra and Cee make a startling discovery: neither one of them can perform the extraction that is required for their passage off the moon. Ezra, once an accomplished prospector, is now no longer fit to perform this operation, the stripping away of the organic from the inorganic. Cee, while experienced in the steps necessary for extraction, fails in the attempt. Now the true nature of the prospector is revealed, in order to extract, you must avoid connection. Their journey together has rendered them harmless.
*Kills mercenary*
Harmless to the moon, perhaps, but not to the mercenaries who are now bent to kill them. While a mercenary stalks them through the woods, Ezra concocts a plan, one which would be previously unthinkable for the man who killed Cee's father in cold blood. Looking through the elaborate plan of distraction and backstabbing, we understand that Ezra is offering himself up as a sacrifice, that Cee will be able to keep living with her operational filter, while Ezra will die without his. Cee abandons the plan, however, and in the ensuing fight, Ezra is gravely injured. A second time, he implores her to save herself, though this time in plain language.
Cee leaves Ezra, only to gather medical supplies for his treatment. It is at this moment that the nature of the prisoner is revealed. This magnificent warrior, having broken free of his flimsy cage, proceeds to beat one of the mercenaries to death with a rock, *after* being hit with several rounds. Later, when Cee and Ezra appear to board the ship, the purple warrior stands by, with his facemask tube dangling in the open air. In the theme of connections, this warrior, breathing in the unfiltered moon's air, is fully integrated with the green. The mercenary said before that the prisoner was here because of tradition. We see in him the man at the end of his journey, ready to be united with life. He passively watches Cee and Ezra leave, because they are no longer a danger to the green.

# Ending
The film ends as we see Ezra and Cee approaching the transport in orbit. Cee smiles, but why? Her shipmate is the murderer of her father, but as we have seen throughout the movie, she had several opportunities to either kill him, or leave him to die, but never did. In actuality, upon leaving the forest moon, she has gained a more meaningful relationship with Ezra than she had with her father, one based on mutual respect and regard. We see a reversal, in these final scenes, of her desperate plea to her father of leaving the moon after finding their first gem. Here, Cee and Ezra escape in the rocket with no gems. They have stolen nothing from the moon, but they are alive, and that's good enough for both of them.
